## Adding cases

1) Adding a case can be achieved with the following commands. Jupyter lab was initially used for case development but really any python interactive evironment would work. Using the "Dev Mode" case selection in a local instance of the dashboard is also useful for case design.

     ``` Python
     write_case_definition(<specifications>),
     with open((case_file_path + <name_of_case_file>)) as f:
          data = json.load(f)
     get_case_data(<specifications>))
     ```
     
     Here's an example of a case specification for a 1950-1955 subset of three member runs each from CanESM5 and HadGEM3-GC31-MM for leaf area index and surface air temperature:
     ``` Python
     write_case_definition(
        "bc_case_mult",
        ["tas", "lai"],
        ["CanESM5", "HadGEM3-GC31-MM"],
        "historical",
        3,
        "1950-01",
        "1955-02",
        (60, -139.05),
        (49, -114.068333),
        (case_file_path + "bc_case_mult.json"),
    )

    with open((case_file_path + "bc_case_mult.json")) as f:
        data = json.load(f)
     ```
     
     This generates a file structure like this:
     ```
     cases/
     
       -bc_case_mult.json
       
       -bc_case_mult/
       
             -CanESM5_tas.nc
             
             -CanESM5_lai.nc
             
             -HadGEM3-GC31-MM_tas.nc
             
             -HadGEM3-GC31-MM_lai.nc
     ```
     The case will show up in the scenario dropdown as 'bc_case_mult.json'

2) After you are happy with the case, the code should be transfered to make_case.py and version controlled. A directory will be created in the cases/ file corresponding to the name of the scenario. Each .nc file will contain all the member runs for the different combinations of models and variables.

3) Cases can be regenerated by calling python make_cases.py from the root of the directory. Currently, to avoid the time consuming task of rewriting cases I have commented out function calls in main. A make file and multiple case scripts would likely be a better long term solution to managing this issue.

### Case troubleshooting

If case creation fails, the most likley cause is that the query generated by get_case_data() is incorrect.

In most cases, the code generating the case definition will throw a meaningful error before the time consuming data downloading actually takes place but the input validation is not currently exhaustive. If the function fails and doesn't thow a useful error You can use https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yUx6jr9EdedCOLd--CPdTfGDwEwzPpCF6p1jRmqx-0Q/edit?usp=sharing to check that the dates, variables, models, and experiments are compatible.

**If the case succeeds in running but isn't working on the dasboard, check that the name of the json is not different from the scenario name and that the corresponding folder exists for the json file. The json name, case name, and file name must all be the same and this is currently not checked on case creation**
